Testdoc:
Palagirised Document:
The modern world is increasingly reliant on energy, which is generated from a number of sources, including fossil fuels, which release hazardous chemicals and contribute to global warming by emitting enormous amounts of CO2. Renewable energy sources, such as hydroelectric, solar, biomass, and geothermal power, have, on the other hand, just lately been brought into our everyday life. In this essay, we will look at the benefits and drawbacks of renewable energy, with an emphasis on hydroelectric power.
Hydroelectric power is a very clean method of producing renewable energy since “it does not produce any greenhouse gases and is the cleanest of all the renewable energy sources”. Hydroelectric power uses the power of water to create electricity. In addition, hydroelectric power stations are very cost efficient as the set up costs are relatively low. Besides, the power station requires minimal labour and can run from 50-100 years within very minimal maintenance cost. Moreover, hydroelectric dams are very reliable as compared to other forms of renewable energy since hydroelectric dams can run 24/7 as long as there is a steady  flow of recyclable water in the turbines. 
However, while hydroelectric power is a cost-effective energy source, it is not suited for many countries, particularly poor ones, because to the initial development expenses. A hydroelectric project must break even and begin earning a profit for at least 5-8 years. Furthermore, electrical dams can disturb the normal flow of rivers, threatening marine life and interfering with the natural flow of water that residents or farmers may require. If the dam is built improperly, it may not be strong enough to hold back water during a natural disaster, such as an earthquake, causing the dam to burst and unleash significant amounts of water, resulting in severe floods and property loss worth millions of dollars.
The largest hydropower station in the world is found in China. The Three Gorges Dam in china has the capacity of producing 22,500 MW . The dam is large and strong enough to stop flooding as it can hold massive volumes of water in its reservoir. The dam cost china $22.5 billion to construct and is the structure was made up of concrete and steel to ensure safety . In Africa, the cost of similar product would be an impediment towards its implementation.
Renewable sources of energy have become increasingly preferred because they are efficient and cost effective. At present, many countries are starting to invest in hydroelectric power generation because of its status as clean energy. However, the aspect of high cost in installation and vulnerability to natural disasters are impediments towards realization of full potential of hydropower as a renewable source of energy across the globe.

